# Database setup

* https://labelstud.io/guide/storedata

Label Studio uses a database to store project data and configuration information.

## Labeling performance
标签性能

The SQLite database might work well for projects with tens of thousands of labeling tasks, as long as you don’t plan on using complex filters in the data manager and other complex multi-user pipelines. If you want to annotate millions of tasks or anticipate a lot of concurrent users or your plan to work on real life projects, use a PostgreSQL database. See [Install and upgrade Label Studio](https://labelstud.io/guide/install#PostgreSQL-database) for more.
只要您不打算在数据管理器和其他复杂的多用户管道中使用复杂的过滤器，SQLite 数据库可能适合具有数万个标签任务的项目。 如果您想要注释数百万个任务或预计有大量并发用户或您计划处理现实项目，请使用 PostgreSQL 数据库。 有关更多信息，请参阅安装和升级 Label Studio。

For example, if you import data while labeling is being performed, labeling tasks can take more than 10 seconds to load and annotations can take more than 10 seconds to perform. If you want to label more than 100,000 tasks with 5 or more concurrent users, consider using PostgreSQL or another database with Label Studio.
例如，如果在执行标签时导入数据，则加载标签任务可能需要 10 秒以上，执行注释可能需要 10 秒以上。 如果您想要使用 5 个或更多并发用户来标记超过 100,000 个任务，请考虑将 PostgreSQL 或其他数据库与 Label Studio 一起使用。

## SQLite database

Label Studio uses SQLite by default. You don’t need to configure anything. Label Studio stores all data in a single file in the specified directory of the admin user. After you [start Label Studio](https://labelstud.io/guide/start), the directory used is printed in the terminal.

## PostgreSQL database

You can also store your tasks and completions in a [PostgreSQL database](https://www.postgresql.org/) instead of the default SQLite database. This is recommended if you intend to frequently import new labeling tasks, or plan to label hundreds of thousands of tasks or more across projects.

### Create connection on startup

Run the following command to launch Label Studio, configure the connection to your PostgreSQL database, scan for existing tasks, and load them into the app for labeling for a specific project.
运行以下命令来启动 Label Studio，配置与 PostgreSQL 数据库的连接，扫描现有任务，并将它们加载到应用程序中以便为特定项目添加标签。

```bash
label-studio start my_project --init -db postgresql
```

You must set the following environment variables to connect Label Studio to PostgreSQL:

```
DJANGO_DB=default
POSTGRE_NAME=postgres
POSTGRE_USER=postgres
POSTGRE_PASSWORD=
POSTGRE_PORT=5432
POSTGRE_HOST=db
```

### Create connection with Docker Compose

When you start Label Studio using Docker Compose, you start it using a PostgreSQL database:

```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

## Minio Blob Storage

MinIO is a blob storage solution that is compatible with Amazon S3. You can use MinIO to store your labeling tasks.

### Starting the containers

For local development, you can host a local MinIO server to emulate an S3-based production environment more closely.
An example docker-compose file for this is available in the [Label Studio repository](https://github.com/heartexlabs/label-studio).

To run MinIO alongside your Label Studio instance, use the following command:

```bash
# Add sudo on Linux if you are not a member of the docker group
docker compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.minio.yml up -d
```

The MinIO server will be accessible at [http://localhost:9000](http://localhost:9000/).
To configure MinIO settings, create a `.env` file. Remember to override the default credentials.

```
MINIO_ROOT_USER=minio_admin_do_not_use_in_production
MINIO_ROOT_PASSWORD=minio_admin_do_not_use_in_production
```

### Connect Label Studio to local MinIO

If you do not have a static IP address, create an entry in your hosts file so that both the Label Studio container and
your browser can find MinIO at the same hostname.

The following entry redirects all requests to MinIO to your local system:

```
127.0.0.1 minio
```

On Windows, you can find your hosts file at `C:\Windows\System32\drivers\etc\hosts`.
On Linux, you can find your hosts file at `/etc/hosts`.
On macOS, you can find your hosts file at `/private/etc/hosts`.

After modifying your hosts file, you can connect to your MinIO server with your browser at [http://minio:9000](http://minio:9000/).

### Remove MinIO data


